<center>
##"Draining Random from Chaos."
##Breeze - a new family of fast CB-PRNG

####Dr. Andreas Briese
#####2014/11/1  
#####edu**Toolbox**@Bri-C GmbH, Sarstedt
</center> 

---

<b>Breeze</b> represents a new family of deterministic random number generators aca pseudo random number generators (PRNGs) based on a combination of two or more "logistic maps" (LM) in chaotic state. 

See https://github.com/AndreasBriese/breeze for **breeze** reference implementation in go/golang (x86 / Little-Endian). 

---

WARNING: This code and documentation is written by a non-mathematician and - furthermore - a non-educated coder ( &amp; is eventually drawn up in lousy english).

---

**Important Note 2014/11/1**:

Breeze had not (jet) become analysed for cryptographic security (cryptoanalysed)! So far breeze should be considered UNSAFE and it's definitely NOT recommended to use Breeze in a security sensitive or cryptographic context.

Nonetheless Breeze output is intensivly tested for deterministic, uniform distributed random characteristics and all about 50 tested sequence sets (100 seq in set, randomly seeded) of up to 8,ooo.ooo bit length generated by Breeze32(n=20)/Breeze72(n=32) passed the NIST test suite for randomness (see below). 

---

---

###Composition:

The Breeze chaos-based pseudo random number generator CB-PRNG consists of four parts:

1. Preparation of seed (Init)
2. Initialization (seedr)
3. Generator core (roundTrip)
4. Composition of output (Byte, ByteMP, XOR, Hash) 

The following documentation is intended to give an overview about the functionality of these parts - please inspect the code for more details. 

**1) Preparation of seed**

The init() function takes a wide range of input types to processes an uint64-Array that is delivered to the seedr() function.

- int, uint8/16/32/64, int8/16/32/64 is typecasted and copied directly to seedr()
- float32/64 are bitwise upshifted by 8/11 bits and feeded to seedr()
- string/[]byte is processed by sipHash's (see sipHash.go) compression function returning two uint64

**2) Initialization**

The seedr() function takes an []uint64 and splits each field into two fragments, that are used to calculate two *startseeds* of the two logmap functions. Each *startseed* is limited to 0..1<<26 and controlled to be different to known "pathological" values and in case corrected and type-casted to float64 before inverted (1/startseed). The "overhead" (upper-bound bytes) of the above limiting operation determines the number of startrounds within initialization.  

**3) Generator core**

The roundTrip() function calculates the next results of the two (or more) logistic map equations. Each equation x<sub>n</sub> = k &sdot; x<sub>n-1</sub> &sdot; (1 - x<sub>n-1</sub>) has a different k with 3.82843 &lt; k &lt;= 4.0 to generate a chaotic state with 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 (see: startseed preparation). The calculation results are mirrored at 1.0 and exchanged between the two (ore more) map functions. They form the actual two (or more) states of the generator and their normalized mantissa ("significand field") is the source of entropy from which four (or more) uint64 fields derive that form the byteregister of breeze. In between a bitshift variable is used to enhance variability of the byteregister-generation and furthermore the byte registers are transposed after each roundTrip to ensure that all registers profitize directly from the generator entropy.           

**4) Composition of output (Byte, ByteMP, XOR, ShortHash)**

<b>Breeze</b> provides examplary output formats for different purposes.

- the Byte(&byt) function sets the variable byt to the next byte (uint8/byte) from breeze's byte register.
- the ByteMP(&byt) function acts similar as Byte() but provides a mutex.Lock/Unlock to ensure thread-/multiprocessor-safety (about 4-5 times slower).
- XOR(&out, &in, &key) seeds the breeze generator with the *key* bytes and bytes of *in* are xored with the generator bytes.
- ShortHash(&m, hashlen) returns a hash of length *hashlen* deriving from multiple roundsTrips. 

(Output of various flavours of random int, random float will be added soon.)

**Note:** ShortHash is NOT intended to hash files - it is foremost a internal function to init breeze's PRNG. The used function derives directly from Dmitry Chestnykhs go implementation of SipHash-2-4 ( https://github.com/dchest/siphash ) "a fast short-input PRF created by Jean-Philippe Aumasson and Daniel J. Bernstein" ( https://131002.net/siphash/ ). The actual breeze code ( Breeze32 and Breeze72 ) utilizes sipHash's compressor to drains 2 &times; uint64 out of the []byte or string provided to seed the PRNG and it must be assumed that ShortHash() produces collisions. Breeze32 processes only the first, Breeze72 uses both in seedr(). String/[]byte compression output numberspace is limited to 1<<64-1 and 1<<128-2 respectivly and collision suspectibility of short strings (i.e. up to 100 bytes) shall be lower than those of long strings (i.e. kilobytes).  

**Note:** XOR() and ShortHash() do NOT reset the generator function automatically. Make sure this is the desired state by your programming logic or use the Reset() function before calling XOR/ShortHash.

---

---

###Install and use

Package **breeze** has no external dependancies.

Install using go get.

    go get github.com/AndreasBriese/breeze

Import the module within the import header of your code:

	package main
	
	import "github.com/AndreasBriese/breeze"
	import "bytes" // for byte comparison in the XOR exmaple
	import "fmt"
	import "io/ioutil"
	
	func main(){
		// 
		// drain 1000 random bytes from chaos
		//
		var bmap72 breeze.Breeze72
		bmap72.Init("1234567")
		result := make([]byte, 1000)
		for i, _ := range result{
			bmap72.Byte(&result[i])
		}
		fmt.Println(result) 
		
		// 
		// hash a string
		//
	    wordToHash := "Alice and Bob are in love."
		var hmap72 breeze.Breeze72
		hash := hmap72.ShortHash(wordToHash, 128) // second parameter for length of hash in bytes
		fmt.Printf("%x\n", hash)
		// get the same hash result
		hmap72.Reset() // Init() will reset all internal states
		hash = hmap72.ShortHash(wordToHash, 128) // second parameter for length of hash in bytes
		fmt.Printf("%x\n", hash)
		
		// use hash with previous initialization results in different hash
		var hhmap72 breeze.Breeze72
		hhmap72.Init(123456789) // Init() sets all internal states and bitshift 
		hash = hhmap72.ShortHash(wordToHash, 128) // second parameter for length of hash in bytes
		fmt.Printf("%x\n", hash)
		// this will give you the same hash again
		hhmap72.Reset() // Init() will reset all internal states
		hhmap72.Init(123456789) // Init() sets all internal states and bitshift
		hash = hhmap72.ShortHash(wordToHash, 128) // second parameter for length of hash in bytes
		fmt.Printf("%x\n", hash)
		
		// 
		// XOR bytes from a file
		//
		in, err := ioutil.ReadFile("./myfile")
		if err != nil {
			panic(1)
		}
		out := make([]byte, len(in))
		key := []byte("xor my file")

		var lmap32 breeze.Breeze32
		lmap32.XOR(&out, &in, &key)
		fmt.Println("in and out are the same:", bytes.Equal(out, in)) // false

		lmap32.Reset()
		lmap32.XOR(&out, &out, &key)
		fmt.Println("in and out are the same again:", bytes.Equal(out, in), "\n") // true
		
		// Have in mind, using Init() before XOR will result in a totally different result
		var lmap72 breeze.Breeze72
		lmap72.Init(1.899999) // sets all internal states and bitshift
		lmap72.XOR(&out, &in, &key)
		fmt.Println("with Init(): in and out are the same:", bytes.Equal(out, in)) // false
		
		lmap72.Reset()
		lmap72.Init(1.899999) // sets all internal states and bitshift
		lmap72.XOR(&out, &out, &key)
		fmt.Println("with Init(): in and out are the same again using :", bytes.Equal(out, in))  // true
		
		lmap72.Reset()
		lmap72.Init(1.899999)
		lmap72.XOR(&out, &in, &key)
		fmt.Println("with Init(): in and out are the same:", bytes.Equal(out, in)) // false
		
		lmap72.Reset()
		// lmap72.Init(1.899999) // leaving out Init() will break the xor decoding  
		lmap72.XOR(&out, &out, &key)
		fmt.Println("xor decode without Init() will fail: in and out are the same:", bytes.Equal(out, in)) // false
		
	}

                   
---

---

###Speed

The primary aim of investigating into CB-PRNG was a need for a second PRNG of comparable speed beside Daniel J. Bernsteins Salsa20 in a bytewise XOR mixing scheme for steganography.  

The two breeze candidates Breeze32 and Breeze72 were compared to Go's math.random, Go's crypto/rand, complimentary-multiply-with-carry (adapted from http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiply-with-carry) and salsa20 (https://code.google.com/p/go/source/browse/salsa20/salsa20.go?repo=crypto with an additional byte draining function) regarding their speed of random byte emission (10.000-10,000.000.000 byte) and with salsa20 about XORing speed of 100MB and 1GB files using Core2Duo, Xeon, i5 and i7 powered PCs and laptops with OSX 10.6-10.9. 

This is the output from an Apple MBPro 2.4 GHz i7 8GB RAM running MacOSX 10.8.5; go1.3 darwin/amd64 compiled with i686-apple-darwin11-llvm-gcc-4.2 (GCC) 4.2.1 (Based on Apple Inc. build 5658) (LLVM build 2336.11.00):

	Streamlength (bytes): 100000000

	 Initialization timings

	cmwcRand.init 33365 ns/op
	salsa.init 36996 ns/op
	breeze32.init 13977 ns/op
	breeze72.init 10319 ns/op

	Timings without initialisation

	 round 0 

	crypto/rand 68.01571552 ns/op
	math/rand 33.82596031 ns/op
	breeze32 5.49807035 ns/op
	breeze72 4.39406591 ns/op
	cmwcRand 7.52924476 ns/op
	salsa 11.18792987 ns/op

	breeze32 mutex 21.77875199 ns/op
	breeze72 mutex 21.60187196 ns/op
	cmwcRand mutex 23.58054803 ns/op
	salsa mutex 25.88707398 ns/op
	
	 round 1 

	crypto/rand 66.99256378 ns/op
	math/rand 33.60127789 ns/op
	breeze32 5.44640898 ns/op
	breeze72 4.39344553 ns/op
	cmwcRand 7.4990206 ns/op
	salsa 8.18642356 ns/op

	breeze32 mutex 21.70489356 ns/op
	breeze72 mutex 21.42219106 ns/op
	cmwcRand mutex 23.81115646 ns/op
	salsa mutex 25.99954086 ns/op

	 round 2 

	crypto/rand 68.28637904 ns/op
	math/rand 33.68869891 ns/op
	breeze32 5.45110795 ns/op
	breeze72 4.40332736 ns/op
	cmwcRand 7.50922828 ns/op
	salsa 8.19375484 ns/op

	breeze32 mutex 21.66532398 ns/op
	breeze72 mutex 21.48430274 ns/op
	cmwcRand mutex 23.78370073 ns/op
	salsa mutex 25.98018151 ns/op

	 file Xoring (1GB)

	Breeze32 XOR: 4.157112021 s/GB  1000000000 
	in == out : false
	Breeze32 XOR: 3.412414476 s/GB
	in == out : true
	
	Breeze72 XOR: 3.125578645 s/GB  1000000000
	in == out : false
	Breeze72 XOR: 3.11587521 s/GB
	in == out : true
	
	salsa XOR: 4.775279203 s/GB  1000000000
	in == out : false
	salsa XOR: 4.76333749 s/GB 
	in == out : true
	
	 hash timings ( n = 1000 )
	
	breeze32 shorthash 128  1129.997 ns/op
	breeze72 shorthash 128  1678.716 ns/op
	sipHash-2-4              144.657 ns/op
	crypto/md5 hash         2127.843 ns/op
	crypto/sha256 hash      4280.948 ns/op
	crypto/sha512 hash      3400.514 ns/op
   

Initialization time of Breeze32/Breeze72 depended on the given seed (*startrounds* from seed preparation) but never exceeded the initialisation times of complMultiplyWithCarry or salsa20. As expected Breeze72 (72 bytes from three LMs) exposed up to 2 &times; slower initialisation but slightly faster byte-emissions than Breeze32 (32 bytes from two LMs).

---

---


### The Breeze License
####LICENSE  
Breeze is published with a MIT-TYPE LICENSE with an ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIVE CLAUSE about Breeze implementations in hardware

Copyright (c) 2014 Andreas Briese <ab@edutoolbox.de>, 31157 Sarstedt, Gernmany
 
ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIVE CLAUSE: Any use of this software, modifications of this software or modifications or extensions of the underlying principle of the Breeze RNG implemented IN HARDWARE needs to be explicitly licensed by the copyright holder Andreas Briese (contact: ab<at>edutoolbox.de).
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
 
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
 
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
 

####Note:
The purpose of this modified MIT LICENSE with ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIVE CLAUSE shall allow a unrestricted use of Breeze by developers on any software platform. In case of the implementation of Breeze or it's underlying logic in RNG hardware (for example but not limited to encryption chips or PIN number generators) the producer of such hardware needs to document the proper implementation to become licensed. This takes into account that improper or wrong implementation of Breeze in hardware might decrease the quality of the the resulting random number stream. 

---

Furthermore i'ld really appreciate to have less problems to feed my family in future :-))

---

---

###Some background information about the evolution of breeze

(Please refer to the warning in the site header!)

The **logistic map** (LM) seems to be a well studied phenomenom (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_map for more information). The formula for the logistic map 

x<sub>n</sub> = kx<sub>n-1</sub>-x<sub>n-1</sub><sup>2</sup> = kx<sub>n-1</sub> &sdot; (1-x<sub>n-1</sub>) 

will get (in theorie) into chaotic state at 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 and 3.56995 &lt; k &lt; 3.82843 and at 3.82843 &lt; k &lt;= 4.0 
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_map) and (in a theoretically unfinite space of real numbers) all following results will be &gt; 0 and &lt; 1 and therefore conserve the chaotic state *ad infinitum*. It's  impossible to predict the next outcome from the input value. Furthermore one can not forcast if the next outcome will be larger or smaller than the input value without actually calculating. LM behaviour in chaotic state is consequently very "randomnous". 

---

Sounds interesting for random number generation? A number of attemps had been made to implement software PRNG based on the logistic map and such a  unpredictable behaviour might also qualify for cryptographic use in particular. 

Computational developements of such algorithms were referred to as "chaos based pseudo random number generators" or CB-PRNGs in literature (see below). 

It turned out that mathematicians theoretical real numbers and float arithmetics in software differ radical. Computational resources are limited in practice and consequently real numbers need to become fitted to bits and bytes. Reals are usually implemented as floating point numbers defined by IEEE 754 (IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic (IEEE 754)) (leaving beside relativly slow decimal floating point number formats) and floating point arithmentics are speeded up by proper maschine code. But these floats are not infinite and restricted to their properly rounded representation regulated by IEEE 754 to prevent under- or overflow the capacity of the given format. 

The difficulties to deal with the restrictions of IEEE float format when calculating the logistic map are discussed in much detail in this publications: Shujun Li, 2008: "When Chaos Meets Computers" http://arxiv.org/abs/nlin/0405038v3 and more recent and discussing logistic map in particular: K. J. Persohn, R. J. Povinelli, 2012: Analyzing Logistic Map Pseudorandom Number Generators for Periodicity Induced by Finite Precision Floating-Point Representation http://povinelli.eece.mu.edu/publications/papers/chaos2012.pdf (Please refer to this text also to find references to important approaches to use chaotic states in PRNG until 2012).

Persohn and Povinelli conclude in the above publication: ''Real number implementations in finite precision are detrimental to the periodicity of chaotic PRNGs. Ignoring this reality makes chaos-based PRNGs deceptively appealing for random applications. (Annot.: Their presented analysis package) FPPC algorithm can comprehensively analyze the periodicity of truncated real number series generated by a recurrence relation. Using these results one can make informed decisions about the appropriate use of a chaotic PRNG with respect to its conventional counterparts. The results revealed about the logistic map do not appear competitive with conventional PRNGs.''

---

Seems like computational representation of chaos-based models in general and logistic map (LM) for PRNGS in particular are dead - so what?

They are'nt dead anyway: 

See below for a list of actual approaches to improve chaos based PRNG (CB-PRNG) period length is mixing CB-RNGs with multiple recursive generators (MRGs) to enhance period length and avoid the predictability of MRG output for use in cryptography:

 S. Shagufa and K. Geetha, 2013: "Period Extension and Randomness Enhancement Using High-Throughput Reseeding-Mixing PRNG" http://www.urpjournals.com/tocjnls/2_13v3i3_2.pdf ; 
 
 M. K. Kumar, S. A. Hussain and S. F. Basha, 2013: "A New Design for High Throughput Linear PRNG" http://www.ijareeie.com/upload/2013/december/27_ANewDesign.pdf;
 
 S. D. Babu and P. M. Kumar, 2013: "Design of a New Cryptography Algorithm using Reseeding-Mixing Pseudo Random Number Generator" http://www.ijitee.org/attachments/File/v2i5/E0631032413.pdf
 
 S. Tazyeen, G.S. Biradar, M. Patil, 2014: "DESIGN OF A NEW CRYPTOGRAPHIC ALGORITHM USING HIGH- THROUGHPUT RM-PRNG" http://www.ijtre.com/manuscript/2014011017.pdf 
 
---

Okay, but logistic maps (LM) alone won't do it. 

Really? 

No, let's take a closer look. What are the central arguments against their use in computation of random numbers?

1. LM produce short periods (resulting from float rounding)  
2. There are 'pathological seeds' in LM that lead to fixed output

Let's take an example:

Logistic map with k = 4; 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 ==> x<sub>n</sub> = 4x<sub>n-1</sub>&sdot;(1 - x<sub>n-1</sub>) [1] 

a.) Deadlocks are x = 1/4 and x = 3/4 leading to output: 0.75 .. 0.75 .. 0.75 ..

set x<sub>n-1</sub> = 1/4 : results in 4 &sdot; 1/4 &sdot; (1 - 1/4) = 1 &sdot; 3/4 = 3/4 = 0.75 

set x<sub>n-1</sub> = 3/4 : results in 4 &sdot; 3/4 &sdot; (1 - 3/4) = 3 &sdot; 1/4 = 3/4 = 0.75

b.) Additionally a deadlock with x = 1/2 output is: 1.0 .. 0 .. 0 .. 0 ..

set x<sub>n-1</sub> = 1/2 : results in 4 &sdot; 1/2 &sdot; (1 - 1/2) = 2 &sdot; 1/2 = 2/2 = 1.0 .. =&gt; 4 &sdot; 1 &sdot; (1 - 1) = 0

c.) If x becomes very small, the float rounding might result in x = 0 which blocks the map function; 

d.) Empirically long sequences of rounded numbers show up with lim 1 or lim 0; if using the CB-PRNG as bit-emitter based on up-down or smaller/larger 0.5 this will result in disturbance of the random sequence by high repetition counts of 0000.. or 1111... 

*a.)*, *b.)* and *c.)* can be mastered by reseeding the map conditionally, but fighting *d.)* brings up a tautology: Since the map is in chaotic state, no prior indicator is given (as far as i know) before entering one of the above deadlocks or "limited chaotic" states caused by floating point arithmetics.  

**Solution for *c.)***

    (S1) Reseed the map if a map results in zero 


<center>... it took me some weeks to stare at floating point number sequences, reading and puzzling ...</center>
   
   
   
**This is my solution for *d.)*:**

Implement another "permanent reseeding" of the logistic maps resulting in:
 
x<sub>n</sub> = k&sdot;(1 - x<sub>n-1</sub>) &sdot;(1 - (1 - x<sub>n-1</sub>))

    (S2) After each calculation reseed the map with 1-x ("mirror x at 1")

This approach would break the map in theoretical math, but if done in the computational universe of IEEE 754 floats each substraction step may or may not cause "cancelation" of LSB and provoce rounding errors --&gt; the computed map remains in chaotic state.

Here i present a new mathematical 'dilemma' for IEEE 754 float arithmetics :-)

    'IEEE 754 dilemma' for float numbers d with 0 < d < 1: mostly x != 1 - (1 - x) 
	but if and only if x can be represented exactly by 1/2 + 1/2^2+ .. + 1/2^len(mantissa) 
	then x == 1 - (1 - x)
	
<center>... some more staring at floating point number sequences, reading and puzzling ...</center>

Another example:

Logistic map with k = 3.9; 0 &lt; x &lt; 1 ==> x<sub>n</sub> = 3.9&sdot;x<sub>n-1</sub> &sdot;(1 - x<sub>n-1</sub>) [2]

a.) Yes, we have deadlocks but NOT x = 1/4 and x = 3/4 as in [1]

set x<sub>n-1</sub> = 1/4 : results in 39/10 &sdot; 1/4 &sdot; (1 - 1/4) = 39/40 &sdot; 3/4 = **117/1600 != 0.75** 

set x<sub>n-1</sub> = 3/4 : results in 39/10 &sdot; 3/4 &sdot; (1 - 3/4) = 117/10 &sdot; 1/4 = **117/40 != 0.75**

b.) No deadlock at x = 1/2 -&gt; output is NOT : 1.0 .. 0 .. 0 .. 0 .. as in [1]

set x<sub>n-1</sub> = 1/2 : results in 39/10 &sdot; 1/2 &sdot; (1 - 1/2) = 39/10 &sdot; 1/2 = **39/20 != 1.0**

c.) If x becomes very small, the float rounding might result in x = 0 ; solved by (S1)

d.) Long sequences of rounded numbers with lim 1 or lim 0 ... ; solved by (S2)



<center>... ding-dong ...</center>



**And this is the solution for *a.)*, *b.)*:**

    (S3) Combine two (or more) logistic map functions with different k-values 
	by "reseeding" them from each other

---

###Expand the mining capacity of the logistic map (LM)

Some approaches use LM by emitting one bit from each calculation result. This can be done by evaluating the difference to the preceeding result (higher/lower) or by evaluating x >= 0.5 (limis logmap results/length). Persohn and Povinelli (2012) resumed, CB-PRNG proved to be ineffective and slow compared to classical LCG - i guess, that is an appropriate resumee if looking at the above mentioned bit generation scheme.

But IEEE 754 double floating point values &gt;0 and &lt;1 can store more than one bit of entropy from chaos. **Breeze** uses 28 to 51 bits of the normalized mantissa (“significand field”) of each logistic map output. Since this is smaller than uint64's capacity two (or more) map states are combined to compute output states using an ARX algorithm. 

If i did not misunderstood the concept of entropy, this means Breeze is based on min. entropy of number-of-LM &times; 2<sup>28</sup> up to max. number-of-LM &times; 2<sup>50</sup> depending on roundTrips the internal state of *bitshift*.  

Breeze32 / Breeze72 emit four / nine uint64 (32 / 72 bytes) deriving from each roundTrip results by permutative shifting and xoring the two / three outputs from the logistic map functions. 

---

###Preliminary assumptions regarding cryptographic qualities of Breeze

**Important Note 2014/11/1**:

Breeze had not (jet) become analysed for cryptographic security (cryptoanalysed) by the community! (I would very much appriciate, if you, the reader, would like to do some analysis) So far breeze should be considered UNSAFE and it's definitely NOT recommended to use Breeze in a security sensitive or cryptographic context.

####- - -

The following aspects are discussed here now (will be extended):

- Random properties of output 
- Input/Seed-recovery from output stream
- Guessing the next output from previous output
- Input/Seed-recovery with insights into all internal states
- Calculate the next output with insights into all internal states


**1.) Random properties of output**

Breeze is designed to emit an stream with uniform random characteristics, that is indistinguishable from a uniform random function output. Following tests had been performed in the last weeks:

+ Tests for randomness of the implementation of the logistic maps:

Since Breeze LMs are deterministic regarding their seed value(s) the results (state) of each LM were recorded continously and checked for repetitions. This was performed with about 5000 sequences of up to 1,000,000.000 byte length (see breezetest.go for the test implementation). 

+ Tests for proper implementation of the output module(s): 

The same was done for the 4 / 9 output uint64 and these were moreover checked for combination repetitions.

+ Additional tests of the emitted bytes:

Breeze emitted bytes were sorted into 256 baskets and the frequencies of values lower/higher than 128 were calculated (see breezetest.go for the test implementation).  

+ NIST Test suite (v. sts-2.1.2 including changes of July 9, 2014)

About 50 tested sequence sets (100 seq in set, randomly seeded) of up to 8,ooo.ooo bit length generated by Breeze32(n=20)/Breeze72(n=32) passed the NIST test suite for randomness (see below). Some sequences up to 1^10 byte were feeded into NIST statistical analysis, but the tests took hrs to days and therefore testing longer sequences with adequat setsize obviously overflows my computational capacities. (Feel free to contribute by testing :-)  

**2.) Input/Seed-recovery from an output stream**

Breeze is a deterministic RNG. That means, that any call of Breeze with the same seed (deriving from input) shall &amp; will produce exactly the same sequence of random bytes. And because these are deriving (deterministic) from the inner states of the LMs also the states at the x'th roundTrip should be exactly the same, if the same seed at call is used.

The important question from a cryptoanalytic view would be, if given an attacker has (a) a part or (b) even the whole sequence of output he could guess the (A) inner state or (B) the input or seed at initialization can be assessed by any means easier than brute force attack (100% of the keyspace).

The seed of the actually implemented Breeze32 LMs is one uint64; Breeze72 uses one uint64 for the first two LM-seeds and a second uint64 (if provided at call) for the third LM. This can easily be extended. Thus a planned Breeze128 implementation (coming soon) will use two uint64 to seed one pair of LMs by each uint64.  

That said, even if you can provide many types of even longer keys to breeze, Breeze32's internal keyspace is effectivly 2<sup>63</sup> while Breeze72 keyspace is effectivly 2<sup>127</sup>. Bruteforce would need such 2<sup>63</sup> or 2<sup>127</sup> different calls of Breeze32 / Breeze72 to recover an input/key.

State-recovery from output means to guess all internal LM states from the output bytes. This should be a 'hard problem' because the output bytes derive from two or more mixed internal states mantissa fragments (steared by the internal variable *bitshift* [0..23] and always less than 52 bits to ensure information loss from internal states within the process) that are combined by an ARX algorithm and xored with their previous states. Furthermore with each rountTrip the output states are alternated in a circular way (state[0]<-state[1]; state[1]<-state[2] ... state[last]<-state[0]). 

**3.) Guessing next output from previous**

Taking into account the chaotic nature of logistic maps and the existings proves about breeze's uniform random output it should be a 'hard problem' to predict future output from breeze with a higher propability than 1:127 for each future byte.

**4.) Input/Seed-recovery with insights into all internal states**

Even if an attacker knows 
 
 - all LMs k-values,
 - all LMs internal states, 
 - the actual assignment of internal states to LMs (S3),  
 - internal bitshift-value (&sim; 1/3 number of roundTrips mod 23; -&gt; output composition).  

The first 'hard problem' will be to guess the number of roundTrips at initialization (1..2<sup>38</sup> startrounds determined by the input processing overhead; -&gt; seed preparation).

Then the attacker will reach the point, that he cannot reverse calculate the preceeding state because of (S2) and the above 'IEEE 754 dilemma':

    'IEEE 754 dilemma' for float numbers d with 0 < d < 1: mostly x != 1 - (1 - x) 
	but if and only if x can be represented exactly by 1/2 + 1/2^2+ .. + 1/2^len(mantissa) 
	then x == 1 - (1 - x)

(S2) results in a hard to recover information loss each time of roundTrip. In this distinct the breeze algorithm is likely to be an "one-way function".  

**5.) Calculate the next output with insights into all internal states**

If an attacker got all the above mentioned internal information he will be able to compute all future output.
 
---

NIST sts-2.1.2 Breeze32

	100 samples with 8,000.000 bits (10**6 bytes) 

	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	RESULTS FOR THE UNIFORMITY OF P-VALUES AND THE PROPORTION OF PASSING SEQUENCES
	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	   generator is <data/341220004.bin>
	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	 C1  C2  C3  C4  C5  C6  C7  C8  C9 C10  P-VALUE  PROPORTION  STATISTICAL TEST
	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	  7   5  17   8  13  10   7  10  11  12  0.275709    100/100     Frequency
	 10   8   9  16  10  14   2  11  11   9  0.191687    100/100     BlockFrequency
	  5  10  12  15   8  13   7   8  11  11  0.514124     99/100     CumulativeSums
	  7  11   8  11  11  15  12   6   5  14  0.334538    100/100     CumulativeSums
	  5   6  10   8  12  10   9  16  15   9  0.262249     99/100     Runs
	 10   8  12  11  10  11   8  12   9   9  0.991468    100/100     LongestRun
	  9   9  10   5  10  16   3  13  10  15  0.102526     98/100     Rank
	  9   9  12   9  12  11  11   4  14   9  0.678686     98/100     FFT
	  8  10  10  15   8   9  11  11  11   7  0.867692    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  14  10   9   5  10   8  14   6  15  0.319084     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   9   8  13   7  10   7  14  11   8  0.719747    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   8  11  13  10   7  14  14   7  10  0.534146     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  11   9  14   9  12   7  10   9   8  0.924076     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   8  15   7   8  13   6   8  15  13  0.249284    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  14  15   9  11   7  10  11   7  12  0.334538    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  10  10  11  10  15  11  10   8   9  0.851383    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   4   8  10   8  15   7  13  10  17  0.122325     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   6  12  12  12   9  10   9  11   7  0.883171     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  15   4  11  10   9  11   9  11  11  0.657933     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   9   7  11  18  11  13   8   9   8  0.275709    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   6  10   7   7   9   8  21  11  11  0.062821    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   8   9  13  10  10   7   9  14   8  0.851383     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  12   8  11  12   9  10  10  11   9  0.991468     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  11   9  10  14   8   9   8  12  13  0.779188     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   9   9  12   8  11  13  10  10   9  0.987896    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   9  12  14   6   7  13  13  10   9  0.595549    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  13   7   9   9  12   9  13  13   3  0.383827     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  10  11   7   8  13  11   6  12  15  0.554420    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9  10   7  13   4  15  13   9  10  0.437274     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  10  10  11  13   7  12   7  12   8  0.911413     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  11  10  14  12  11  11   6  10   8  0.816537     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  3  12  17   8  12  13  12  10   6   7  0.096578    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15   7   4  11  11  10  11   6  11  14  0.304126     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   8  16  10  12   9  17   9   5   6  0.122325     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15  10  10   7   6  10  10   8  10  14  0.637119     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  12   9  14  12   8  11   8   7   6  0.657933     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   7   7  14   9   9  10  13   7  10  0.637119     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  11  10   8  11  10  15   9   9   9  0.924076     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   9   8  12  11   9   9  12   7  10  0.946308     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   6  11   9  14  15  10   9  10   7  0.637119     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  10  15   6   8  12  11   7  11  12  0.657933     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  13  12   9  11  12   6   6  13  14  0.262249    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  14  11   5  16  10  12   6   6   9  0.236810    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  12  10   8   9  12  10  15   7   8  0.816537     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   8  10   9   9   8  13  10  14   9  0.935716    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  12  10  11   5  10   7  13  11  12  0.798139     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  13   8  14   9  12  10   6   7  12  0.699313     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   7  10  12  12  11   9   6  13   9  0.867692    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  11  12   9  11   8  12   9   8  10  0.991468    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   8  10   9  13  11  10   7  10  10  0.971699     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14  11  12  16  10  11  11   7   3   5  0.115387    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5   9   3   9  15  15  13  11   6  14  0.051942    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  13  14  13  11   8  13   6   5   8  0.401199    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  11  14   6   6  12  11  10   7  12  0.657933     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  15   7  11   7  14   8  11  12   6  0.474986    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  16   8  15  10   9   7  10   5  10  0.350485     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14  13   8   4   9   7   8  17  10  10  0.171867     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  12  10  10  11   9  13   7  10  12  0.883171     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  11  15  14   8   6   8  11   9   8  0.616305     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  17   6   7   6  12  12   8  13   9  0.262249     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   9  11   6   8  12  15   7   9  12  0.678686     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  10  13   4  12   5   9  18   6  12  0.066882     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   6  10  15  10   8   7  12  11  12  0.699313    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  12   8  14   9   5   8  15  11   9  0.514124     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 16  13  11   7   8   5   9  11  10  10  0.474986     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  11  12  17  15   7   3   7  14  10  0.019188    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   9  11   8  15   6  10   7  12  11  0.719747     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  11  14  11   4  10  11   9   9  13  0.637119    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   7  10  10  14   6  16  10   6   9  0.366918    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 17  14   8   9   6   8  10  14   4  10  0.115387    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   4  11  12  11   7  14  13   7  13  0.366918     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  10   7  11  15   9   6  12  12  12  0.534146    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   4  10  11  14  13  13   6   6  17  0.051942    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  10   5  12   7   7  12  13  10  11  0.637119     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  14  10   6   8  11  10  12   7  11  0.816537     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   8   6  14   9  13   8  15   9  10  0.534146    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   4  15  10  10  10  12   9  11  10  0.657933     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  10  11  11   5  11  10   8  14  13  0.678686    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  12  13   8  10  11  10  14   7   9  0.739918    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  11   7  13   9   9  12  11  13   8  0.851383     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  10  14  12  10   9  10   5  12   8  0.798139    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  12   9  12  11  11  10  12   4   7  0.699313     96/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  10  10  15   8   9  11  11  11   7  0.867692    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   6   5   7  12   9  12  14  20   6  0.023545    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  11  14  10   4  11  10  10  11   6  0.534146    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   6  17   7   9  10   7  12  10  12  0.419021     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  14  13   8   6   9   9  13   5  11  0.474986    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   9  13  10  13   8  10   6  10   8  0.816537    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  14   9   8  11   8   9  12   9  10  0.955835     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  11   6   7  17   9  15  14  10   2  0.032923    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   5  10  12  14   7   7  10  17  12  0.153763    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   8   7   9  10   9  10  12  11  13  0.964295    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 17   8   9   8  10  10   7  11  12   8  0.574903     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  10  13   4  16   9  12   7  11   7  0.304126     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   8  11   9  12  11  11   7  11  12  0.964295    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  10  11  13  10  13  12   5   9   9  0.798139     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   5  14   7   5  20   6  12  10   7  0.008879     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   6  13   9  11  12   8  12  10   6  0.699313     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  10  12  12   6   9  10  13  10   8  0.924076    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9  15   7   9   8  13  13   8   8  0.678686     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  12   4  11   9   6  13   9  14  10  0.455937    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  2   7  16   9   9  12  15   7   9  14  0.055361    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   5   9  12  11  11  11  14  11   2  0.162606     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  12  15  11  10   7  10   9   7   8  0.798139     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   6  12  12  12  12   9   9   7  12  0.851383     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  11   9   3  11  10  17   8  13  12  0.145326     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   9  11  10  11   7  11   6  15   6  0.474986     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  10   9  10  17  11   7   9  11  10  0.554420     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   8  14   7  10   8   8  12  10  12  0.867692    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4   8  12  11  18   8  11   4  13  11  0.066882    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15  10  15   6   8  11  12  11   7   5  0.275709     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  12  10  13  10   9   9  10   7   9  0.978072     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  17   6  12   3   9   7  12  11  14  0.090936     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  11   6   9   7   8  10  15  12  12  0.699313     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  10  11  10   8  10  13  10   9   6  0.911413     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  11  10  12   9  16  11   8   9   5  0.595549    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   9   8   8  12  14  13  10   6   8  0.719747     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 18   8   6  15   7   8  10  10   7  11  0.153763     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  10  17  12  11   5  13  14   6   4  0.066882     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  13   7   7  14   8  12   9  12   9  0.759756     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   7   6  13  15  10   7  11  12   8  0.554420    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   9  11   9  11  10  14  11   5   9  0.851383     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 16   8   9   5  13  12   7   7  11  12  0.334538     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   8   9   8  12  12  11  10   8  10  0.978072     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   5  11   9   7  11  11  15   8  14  0.494392    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  10  15   8   8  11  12   7  11   7  0.759756     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   9  14  10   5  14   9   9   8  14  0.494392     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  14  13   8  10  11   6   6  11  14  0.455937    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  10  10  14  10  17  10   5   7  11  0.236810    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   6   8  12  11  10  13  11   7   8  0.699313     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   9  12  10   9   8   6  12  10  12  0.924076     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  15   9  14   9  16   6   3   4  12  0.026948     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  12   6   6   7  15   9  13  16  12  0.075719     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   8  11   8   9  12   9   6  12  16  0.616305     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  14   7  10  14   6   9  10  12   8  0.678686     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   9  11  13  13  12   3  13  10  10  0.366918     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5  12   6  14  17   6   7  13  13   7  0.062821     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   8  10  11   8  13  14   7   9  12  0.816537     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  11  12   7  11  14   5  10   4  13  0.275709     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14  10  12   7   9  11  12   5   9  11  0.719747     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   6   8  11   4  11  15  11  13  10  0.401199     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   8  10  10  14  10   6  11   8  10  0.834308    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  11   9  11   8  12   9  13   7  13  0.851383     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   8  10  18  18   9   9   9   3   9  0.021999     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5  11  13   7  13  11   9  16   8   7  0.319084    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  11   4   8  14  12   9  12  11  10  0.657933     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  13   8  13  14   8   9  10  12   6  0.616305     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   8   8   6  19  11  10  10  10   6  0.181557    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15   9   8  12   4  15   9  14   7   7  0.162606     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5  14   9   9  10  12  15   6  12   8  0.383827     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   9  10  10  12   7   9  14   9   8  0.911413     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  14   6  12   8   8   8  13  14   9  0.554420    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9  10  15   7   8   6  11  11  13  0.678686     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  14   8  12  11  11  13   2   6  10  0.191687     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  11   7  13  15  13   6   4  13  10  0.224821    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  12   9  13  10  11  10  12   4   7  0.657933     96/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  11  11   7   9  12  12  10  10   7  0.964295    100/100     OverlappingTemplate
	 14  10   9  11  12  11   7   9   8   9  0.924076     97/100     Universal
	 10  11  14   8   7  18   6  11   6   9  0.171867     99/100     ApproximateEntropy
	  6   8  11  12  11   8   7  11   8   7  0.727346     89/89      RandomExcursions
	 10   8   9   9  10  11  10   8   5   9  0.902994     89/89      RandomExcursions
	 14   8  12   5   6   6  11   7  10  10  0.284375     87/89      RandomExcursions
	  9  10   9   5   6   6   9  14  10  11  0.425817     89/89      RandomExcursions
	  6   8  14   5  11   7  11  11   9   7  0.360699     89/89      RandomExcursions
	  6  11  11   6   8  10   6   9  14   8  0.448892     89/89      RandomExcursions
	 10   5  11   8  11   4  17   8   9   6  0.054923     87/89      RandomExcursions
	  8  10  10  15   5  10   6   5  10  10  0.250878     89/89      RandomExcursions
	  9  12  13   3  10   9  11   8   6   8  0.302291     89/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  7  13  12   8   9  11   6   5   8  10  0.472584     89/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  8  10  11  11   7   8   7   8  12   7  0.823278     89/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  5  15   9  10   7   8   6   6  13  10  0.180322     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  8   7  11   9   6   9  12   4  14   9  0.302291     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  6  11   7   8   9  10   8   9   9  12  0.865697     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  7  10   6  10  12   7  12  11  11   3  0.267238     89/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  7   6   9  19   9  14   4   7   8   6  0.005922     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  6   7   8  12  13   5  12  11   7   8  0.340461     89/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  6  10  14   7   9   7   6   8  13   9  0.381687     89/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 13  10   8   7   7   7  12   8   6  11  0.572333     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 10  13   7  11   9   7   7  12   6   7  0.546791     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 10  10  10  10  11   3   9  13   7   6  0.340461     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 13   7   9   7   9  11   9   7   9   8  0.823278     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 12  11   7   6   7   8  10  10  12   6  0.598138     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 11   9   7   6   9   9   8  11   7  12  0.800471     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  8  10   4  11   6   8  12  10   7  13  0.360699     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  9   5  14   8   4   6  10  14   9  10  0.126842     88/89      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  9   8   5  15  13   8   7  15  13   7  0.213309    100/100     Serial
	  7   7   9  13   8   9  14  11  10  12  0.798139    100/100     Serial
	  9   6   9  10   7  12  14  12  11  10  0.816537     99/100     LinearComplexity


	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
	The minimum pass rate for each statistical test with the exception of the
	random excursion (variant) test is approximately = 96 for a
	sample size = 100 binary sequences.

	The minimum pass rate for the random excursion (variant) test
	is approximately = 85 for a sample size = 89 binary sequences.

	For further guidelines construct a probability table using the MAPLE program
	provided in the addendum section of the documentation.
	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

---

NIST sts-2.1.2 Breeze72

	100 samples with 8,000.000 bits (10**6 bytes) 
	
	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	RESULTS FOR THE UNIFORMITY OF P-VALUES AND THE PROPORTION OF PASSING SEQUENCES
	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	   generator is <data/1503320824.bin>
	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	 C1  C2  C3  C4  C5  C6  C7  C8  C9 C10  P-VALUE  PROPORTION  STATISTICAL TEST
	------------------------------------------------------------------------------
	  8   9  14   9  13   9   8   8  12  10  0.883171     99/100     Frequency
	  3   9  13  11   9  10  11   5  10  19  0.051942    100/100     BlockFrequency
	  9   9  10  14  10   9   5   8  15  11  0.595549     99/100     CumulativeSums
	  8  14   8   8   9  14  13   7   7  12  0.574903     98/100     CumulativeSums
	  6  12  13   9   7  12   7   9  11  14  0.637119    100/100     Runs
	  8  14  11   7   7   6  14   9  10  14  0.455937     99/100     LongestRun
	 10  11   4   6  15  10  15   9  10  10  0.319084    100/100     Rank
	 13   7  11   5   8  14  15  12  11   4  0.162606     99/100     FFT
	  9  11   9   9  14  14   9   9   8   8  0.867692     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   9  16  12   3  10  11   9  11  11  0.366918    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 17   9   9   9  11  13   8   8   6  10  0.474986     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   8   9   9   9  12  10   9  10  14  0.971699     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   9   9   9   9  15  13   9  11   7  0.834308    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5   9  11   8  15   7  14   8  14   9  0.334538    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   8   6  11  10  16   9   9  11  12  0.657933     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  10  14  11  10  11  14   6   8   8  0.719747    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   7   6  13  10  10  17   4  15  10  0.096578     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  14   9   9   8  13  11   7  10  11  0.867692    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  16   8   8  15   7  11  12  10   7  0.289667    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5   3   6  11  10  12  11  14  11  17  0.062821    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   7   8   6  11  11   5  15  16   8  0.162606     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   5  10  10   9   9   8  14  15   7  0.437274    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   9   6  10  14  17   6  10   7  12  0.262249    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   6   9   7   8  18  14   8   4  12  0.048716     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  11  13   9   5  14   5   7  13  15  0.191687     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  10   9   7   8  12  13   6  14  11  0.739918     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  14   7  14   5  11  10   9   9  10  0.637119    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   9  14  11  10   6   8  11   6  17  0.289667    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   7  10   6  15  13   7   4  16   8  0.066882     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  10  12  11  11   5  10  11   6  20  0.030806    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   8   7  11   4   5  12  16  14  16  0.040108    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   9   5  11  12  15  12   7  13   8  0.474986     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15   6  13  11   8  11  14   7   5  10  0.304126     96/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  11  11   9  11   5   7  13  10  12  0.816537     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   6   7  13  17   5   9  12  11  13  0.153763     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   7  10  10   7   8  14  12   8  15  0.616305    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  12   9  12   9  12   9   5  15   9  0.637119    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   5  12  13  15   8   8   7  11   8  0.401199     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9  11   5   9  12  10  11  11  12  0.924076     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   8   9   6  16  16   6  10  11  11  0.213309    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  14  12   7  15  13   9   6   7   8  0.401199    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  10  14  12   9   4  13  10  12   8  0.554420     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   7   9  13  14  10   9   9   4  12  0.474986     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   9  11  12   5  13  10  12  10   5  0.554420     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   9   4   6  11  12   9  15  13  13  0.304126    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  16   9  10  10   8   9  10  12   9  0.779188     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15  10  10   7   7  14   8   9  10  10  0.699313    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  14  14  12   9   8   9  11  10   6  0.657933     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   6   9  15  11  15   9   4  10   7  0.162606     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  10   8  12   9  15   7   9   9   9  0.834308    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  15  10   8  17  11   7  11   8   5  0.202268     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  14   7   8  12  11  10  18   4  10  0.090936     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  11  12   5  14   7  10  15  11   8  0.401199     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  11  10  16  12  15  12  11   3   6  0.045675     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   3   9   9  12  10  11  11  13   9  0.574903     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  11   8   9  13   9  13   9   6  12  0.867692     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   8   5   7  10  14  13  11   9  13  0.595549    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9  13   6   5  18   8   8  13  10  0.153763     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  10   7  13   8  11   9   7   8  15  0.678686     96/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   6   6  14  19  12   7   5  11  11  0.048716     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   5   7   9  10  12  13  15   8  13  0.437274     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9  15   8  12   9  11   9  10   7  0.867692    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   9   7   5  10  11  11  17   9  12  0.419021     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  12  10   8  16  10   8  10   8   8  0.779188     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  12  11  10   9  17   4   6  10  10  0.289667     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  11   8  11   9   7  14   9  11   8  0.897763    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  14  15   8  10   6   8   9  12   8  0.595549     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 17   8   9   8   7   7  15  12   8   9  0.275709     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  10  17   7   5   9  14  13   9   9  0.213309    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   3   7  11  12  11  11   9  11  14  0.494392     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   8  12   6  10  15   9  12  10   8  0.759756    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14  13   5   7   6   6  12   7  12  18  0.045675     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  14   9   8  10   9   5  12  10  15  0.534146    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  13   5  17  10   4  10  10  12  10  0.191687     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  13  10  12   7   9  16   9   8   8  0.616305     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9  10  11  12   7  15   3  11  12  0.401199    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 21  12   9  12   7  10   6   9   7   7  0.042808     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  11  11   9  12  11  10  15   7   8  0.719747     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   8   9   7  13  10  15   9   7  11  0.739918    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7  11   4   8  14  11  13  11  12   9  0.514124     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   9  11  10   5  11  13   8  13   8  0.759756    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  13  11  13  10   6   5  14   5  15  0.162606    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  11   9   9  14  14   9   9   8   8  0.867692     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  10   9  16   7   6  13  14   8   8  0.383827    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   8   9   8  13  14   7  13  11   9  0.759756     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  14   9  10  11  11   7   9  10   6  0.798139     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15   9   8  10   5  13  10  14   6  10  0.383827     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12  13   9   7   8   8  11   9  11  12  0.924076    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   9   7  12  10  10   9   9  10  11  0.978072     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  14  14  10   8   8   9   9  14   8  0.554420    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   7   8   7  10   7  14  20   9  12  0.051942    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   7  14   9   9   8   9  11  12  11  0.924076     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   8  11  10  11   9  12   5  15   7  0.595549     96/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   6   8  10  14  15   9  10   9   9  0.699313     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8   8  11  12  11  10  11  12   9   8  0.983453     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  14  10  11   8  12   8  12   5  12  0.678686    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  14   7  13  13   7  10   6  12   9  0.595549    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  13   9   7  10  14  11   6   5  15  0.334538    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  12  16   9  11  10   7  12   8   7  0.616305     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 16  11   9   9  10   8   8  12  11   6  0.657933     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  13   8  11   7   7  15   7   9  13  0.574903    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5   7   8  13   6  10  14  13  11  13  0.366918    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  10   7   7  13   9  11   9  11  12  0.935716     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  11  17   7  11   7  12  10  10   6  0.437274     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5  12  10  10  15  11   9  10   9   9  0.759756     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   6   7  14  13  12  12   9   4  10  0.319084    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4   5   7  14   7  14  14  10  10  15  0.085587    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   4  11  12   8  16  11  11   9  11  0.401199     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   5  13   9  10   9   9  10  10  14  0.798139     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   7   9  14  12  12  11  10   9   7  0.867692    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  14   7  11   5  15  11  12   9   8  0.437274    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15  16   7   8  10  11   5   5   7  16  0.048716     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  14  10  12  12   6  11  11   9   9  0.739918     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  12   6  14  13   9  12   9  10  11  0.455937    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   8   9  10  14  13   8   9   8   9  0.883171     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   7   9  11   8  11  12   8  12   8  0.851383    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   7  14   6   6   7  13  13   9  14  0.334538     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   6  14   7  12   9  10  10  15   7  0.534146     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   6   5  10   7   8  12  10  15  16  0.213309     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  11  18  12   8  11   9   7   5  11  0.249284    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5  11  10  13  10   8  12  11  10  10  0.883171     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   6   7  15  12   7  11   8   9  16  0.304126    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   7   9  16  12   4   9  15  10  11  0.202268     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  10  12  12  10  10   8   6  12   9  0.946308    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   5   7   9   8  11  11  22  14   6  0.007160     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   9   6   7   9  12  13  12  14   8  0.699313    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15   9   7   7  12  12  13   5   6  14  0.224821     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4   9   6  10  12  15  16  10  11   7  0.171867    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  11  15   5   8  10   9   7   8  16  0.304126    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11  14   8   9  13  12  11   4  14   4  0.191687     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   5  12   8  10  11  15  12   9   9  0.678686     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  13  13  14  12   7  14   6   5   8  0.262249     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   8  10   9  14  13   6   9   9   8  0.657933    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   9  14   5   9  14  14   4  16   9  0.058984    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6  11   8   9   9  21   9  11   4  12  0.028817    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  12   7   6  10  13   9  16   8  11  0.494392     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13  10  10   8  13   4  13  11  10   8  0.616305     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  6   9   8   9  16   8  11  13   8  12  0.534146     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9  10   8   8  15   7   7  12   9  15  0.514124     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 16  13   8   7   9  12   8  12   8   7  0.494392    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 15   5  13   9   7   7   8  14  10  12  0.334538     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 16   5   7   9  18  11  11   6  11   6  0.048716     98/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 12   7   8  10  12   6  15   9  11  10  0.699313     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  10  14  10   8   8  12  14   7   9  0.759756     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  9   8  12  10  10  14   9  10   8  10  0.964295    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10  15  16  10  10   5   9   7   6  12  0.236810     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   6  12  10  10   6  14   8   9  14  0.595549    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 17   8   8  13  13   9   8   6  10   8  0.350485     97/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 13   9   9  12  12   8  13   8   6  10  0.816537    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  4  14  15  11   8   9  11  12   6  10  0.319084    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 14   7  12   8   8   5   9  11  11  15  0.437274     96/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  7   9  15   8  10   7  14   6  11  13  0.437274     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  5  10  15  10  16   5  11  12   6  10  0.153763    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 10   6  12   9  12  10  10  10  10  11  0.978072     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 11   9   9  11  17   5   8  13   8   9  0.383827     99/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	  8  13  11  13  10   6   5  14   5  15  0.162606    100/100     NonOverlappingTemplate
	 17  15   6   9   9   6  12  11   7   8  0.181557     98/100     OverlappingTemplate
	 13  14   9   9  13   7   9   7  10   9  0.779188     97/100     Universal
	  8  11   7  11  11   8  16   6  15   7  0.304126     99/100     ApproximateEntropy
	 11  11   1   4   9   9   8   6  14  12  0.039782     84/85      RandomExcursions
	 13   8   9   3  12  10   8   6   6  10  0.320988     85/85      RandomExcursions
	 13   5  11   6   8   8   8   8  10   8  0.701879     82/85      RandomExcursions
	 14   7   8   5   7   9   8  12   9   6  0.472584     84/85      RandomExcursions
	  8   9   9   7   5  10  10   6  11  10  0.865697     84/85      RandomExcursions
	  6   6  13   8   8   9   9   6   8  12  0.650132     85/85      RandomExcursions
	  5  13   6   8  12  12  10   9   7   3  0.180322     84/85      RandomExcursions
	  5   7   6   8  14  14   7   8   8   8  0.284375     83/85      RandomExcursions
	  9   6   9   9   5   9  11   6  10  11  0.800471     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  8   7   6   8  10   9   9   9  10   9  0.989333     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  9   7   4   6  11   5  17   7   5  14  0.013217     85/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  8   4  12   9   6  10  11   7   5  13  0.302291     85/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  7   7   5  13  10   6  14   8   9   6  0.302291     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  6   6  10   8   7  15   5  12  12   4  0.094427     83/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  7   5  12   5  10   9  11   8   9   9  0.701879     83/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 10   7   6   7   9   9   8   9   8  12  0.934318     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 10   7   7   7   8   9  10   9  10   8  0.989333     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  9   6   8  11  10  11  12   7   5   6  0.624107     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  7  13  10   9   9   5   8   7   6  11  0.650132     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  7  10  13  11   4   6   4   7  15   8  0.075138     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  8  12  10   2   8  10  10   9  11   5  0.320988     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 10   8   8  11   6   6  14   6   8   8  0.572333     83/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 10  10  11   7   9   6   9   5  11   7  0.800471     83/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 12   8   5  12   7  13   5   5  11   7  0.220448     83/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 10   9  11   8   6   4  13   7   7  10  0.521600     83/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	  9  11   6  11   6   8  11  10   2  11  0.302291     84/85      RandomExcursionsVariant
	 12   9   9   8   6  16  10  11  10   9  0.699313    100/100     Serial
	 16   9   5   8   8  10  10   9  11  14  0.455937    100/100     Serial
	 13   6  15   6  11  10  10  12  11   6  0.455937    100/100     LinearComplexity


	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
	The minimum pass rate for each statistical test with the exception of the
	random excursion (variant) test is approximately = 96 for a
	sample size = 100 binary sequences.

	The minimum pass rate for the random excursion (variant) test
	is approximately = 81 for a sample size = 85 binary sequences.

	For further guidelines construct a probability table using the MAPLE program
	provided in the addendum section of the documentation.
	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    

---

<center>*.. an amazonian butterfly flaps his wings ..*</center>